[MUSIC]
Welcome to Kubernetes architecture.
After watching this video,
you will be able to,
identify the components of
a Kubernetes architecture.
Identify the components
of a control plane.
And identify the components
of a worker plane.
This architecture diagram highlights the
main components in a Kubernetes system.
A deployment of Kubernetes is
called a Kubernetes cluster.
A Kubernetes cluster is a cluster of nodes
that runs containerized applications.
Each cluster has one master node,
the Kubernetes control plane, and
one or more worker nodes.
The control plane maintains the intended
cluster state by making decisions
about the cluster and detecting and
responding to events in the cluster.
As an analogy,
it is similar to a thermostat.
You specify the desired temperature, and
the thermostat regulates heating and
cooling systems continuously to
achieve the specified state.
An example of decision made by the control
plane is the scheduling of workloads and
an example of responding to an event
is creating new resources when
an application is deployed.
Nodes are the worker machines
in a Kubernetes cluster.
In other words,
user applications are run on nodes.
Nodes are not created by Kubernetes
itself, but rather by the cloud provider.
This allows Kubernetes to run
on a variety of infrastructures.
The nodes are then managed
by the control plane.
In the Kubernetes control plane,
the Kubernetes API server
exposes the Kubernetes API.
The API server serves as the front-end for
the control plane.
All communication in
the cluster utilizes this API.
For example, the Kubernetes API
server accepts commands to view or
change the state of the cluster.
The main implementation of a Kubernetes
API server is Kube-api-server,
which is designed to scale horizontally
by deploying more instances.
You can run several instances
of kube-api-server and
balance traffic between those instances.
Etcd is a highly available distributed
key value store that contains
all the cluster data.
When you tell Kubernetes
to deploy your application,
that deployment configuration
is stored in etcd.
Etcd defines the state in
a Kubernetes cluster and
the system works to bring the actual
state to match the desired state.
The Kubernetes scheduler assigns
newly created pods to nodes.
This basically means that the kube
scheduler determines where your workloads
should run within the cluster.
The scheduler selects the most
optimal node according to Kubernetes
scheduling principles, configuration
options, and available resources.
The Kubernetes controller manager runs
all the controller processes that monitor
the cluster state and
ensure the actual state of a cluster
matches the desired state.
Finally, the cloud controller manager
runs controllers that interact with
the underlying cloud providers.
These controllers effectively link
clusters into a cloud provider's API.
Since Kubernetes is open source and
would ideally be adopted by a variety
of cloud providers and organizations,
Kubernetes strive to be as
cloud agnostic as possible.
The cloud controller manager allows
both Kubernetes and the cloud
providers to evolve freely without
introducing dependencies on the other.
Nodes are the worker machines
in a Kubernetes cluster.
In other words,
user applications are run on nodes.
Nodes can be virtual or physical machines.
Each node is managed by
the control plane and
contain the services necessary
to run applications.
Nodes include pods which are the smallest
deployment entity in Kubernetes.
Pods include one or more containers.
Containers share all the resources of the
node and can communicate among themselves.
The kubelet is the most important
component of a worker node.
This controller communicates with
the kube API server to receive new and
modified pod specifications and
ensure that the pods and
their associated containers
are running as desired.
The kubelet also reports to the control
plane on the pods health and status, and
in order to start a pod,
the kubelet uses the container's runtime.
The container runtime is responsible for
downloading images and running containers.
Rather than providing a single container
runtime, Kubernetes implements
a container runtime interface that permits
pluggability of the container runtime.
While Docker is likely
the best known runtime,
Podman and Creo are two other
commonly used container runtimes.
Lastly, the Kubernetes proxy is a network
proxy that runs on each node in a cluster.
This proxy maintains network rules that
allow communication to pods running on
nodes, in other words, communication
to workloads running on your cluster.
In this video, you learned that a control
plane makes global decisions about
the Kubernetes cluster.
A control plane is made up of controllers,
an API server, a scheduler, and an etcd.
A worker plane is made up of nodes,
kubelet, container runtime, and
kube-proxy.
Worker nodes run important Kubernetes
components as well as user
workloads deployed on the cluster.
And the smallest deployable entity in
Kubernetes is a pod which includes one or
more containers.
[MUSIC]